BFD-3660: Initial SAMHSA V2 RFC (#2464)
CMSgov/beneficiary-fhir-data: docs/rfcs/0023-samhsa-v2.md

    - [Entity Definitions - DSL vs JPA](#entity-definitions---dsl-vs-jpa)
  - [Pipeline Updates](#pipeline-updates)
  - [FHIR Server Updates](#fhir-server-updates)

## Background

The SAMHSA filter currently operates on the transformed representation of the FHIR payloads.
It looks at the diagnosis, procedure, and detail components of the payload and checks the list of ICD, CPT, and DRG codes. 
When `excludeSAMHSA=true` is supplied to the EOB, Claim, or ClaimResponse endpoints, any claim that contains at least one code that matches against the SAMHSA list will be excluded.

The current filter logic is tightly coupled to the implementation of the FHIR transformers.
Any change to the system URLs, additional functionality that adds a potentially sensitive code to a new field in the FHIR response, or a bug that causes certain fields to not be mapped in the FHIR payload may cause the filter to behave incorrectly. 

Instead of basing the SAMHSA filter on the FHIR payload, it would be safer to check any database column that could contain sensitive info and explicitly mark that claim as sensitive at ingestion time.

## Implementation Overview

> The implementation will utilize [FHIR Security Labels](https://build.fhir.org/security-labels.html) to tag claims as 'sensitive'.
> SAMHSA claims will include a [Confidentiality](https://terminology.hl7.org/4.0.0/CodeSystem-v3-Confidentiality.html) tag of `R` for 'restricted' and an [Act Code](https://terminology.hl7.org/6.0.2/CodeSystem-v3-ActCode.html) tag of `42CFRPart2`.

Reviewer: I think the content is nearly or entirely identical, but it's important that we clearly refer to the like-sequenced FHIR™ R4 and/or 4.0.1 where possible.
```suggestion
The implementation will utilize [FHIR Security Labels](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/security-labels.html) to tag claims as 'sensitive'.
SAMHSA claims will include a [Confidentiality](https://terminology.hl7.org/5.5.0/CodeSystem-v3-Confidentiality.html#v3-Confidentiality-R) tag of `R` for 'restricted' and an [Act Code](https://terminology.hl7.org/5.5.0/CodeSystem-v3-ActCode.html#v3-ActCode-42CFRPart2CD) tag of `42CFRPart2`.
```

Author: Good catch, thanks!

The main purpose of the DSL is to make it easy to map incoming data directly into our database tables. However, the tables we're adding for this functionality will be populated using our own logic and don't directly map to the fields coming from the RIF files or RDA messages, so the extra codegen features provided by the DSL are largely unnecessary.
The internal RDA tracking tables (`mbi_cache`, `message_errors`, `rda_api_progress`, and `claim_message_meta_data`) are also defined using JPA entities directly, so there is precedent for this.

## Pipeline Updates

The CCW and RDA pipelines will need to be updated to populate the new tables.
At processing time, the pipeline will check each claim against the configured list of SAMHSA codes and populate the tag tables with both the `R` and `42CFRPart2` tags for each SAMHSA claim.

## FHIR Server Updates

The SQL queries used to fetch the claims data for the EOB, Claim, and ClaimResponse endpoints will need to join against the tag tables in order to determine which claims have SAMHSA data.
SAMHSA claims should not be included if `excludeSAMHSA=true` is supplied in the request. 

> The `R` and `42CFRPart2` [Security Labels](https://build.fhir.org/security-labels.html) should be applied to the FHIR response if SAMHSA data is allowed to be returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `R` and `42CFRPart2` [Security Labels](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/security-labels.html) should be applied to the FHIR response if SAMHSA data is allowed to be returned.
```
